Task1:
 
Whistleblowers play an important role in identifying and calling out misconduct and harm to consumers and the community. To encourage whistleblowers to come forward with their concerns and protect them when they do, the Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act) gives certain people legal rights and protections as whistleblowers.

Read the following situations and discuss if it is required to blow the whistle:


1) A member in a data science team has noticed that several data science team did not take the proper measures to anonymize the identity of the users before building the data science tools.


2)	A data science team has agreed with a client to perform a project. The team received the funding from that client, and started funding other projects that the team already has, without notifying the client.


3)	In a meeting with a client, one data scientist noticed that not all information was given to the client. He also noticed that the client was given unrealistic deadlines to finish the project.

Situtaion1
 
It is required to blow the whistle.

This is serious ethical ana legal issues- it might violate data privacy and can be misused or breached. Whistleblowing is likely to jusited in this case is to alert the management or related authorities. To protect the consumer pricvacy is critical responsibilty for the organization which handle personal data. 

Situtaion 2:
It is required to blow the whistle to the eligible recepients.

This is the case of misuse of funds and breach of trust as the client excepts that the fund will be used for the allocated project only.


Situtaion 3:

It is supposed to blow the whistle as this can lead reputational harm if company fails to meet the deadline. this actions can breach ethical obligation to comunicate honestly and transparetly to the clinet.This conduct is advisable as it will encourage honest and fair business pratices. 


Task 2:
Case Study: Data Analysis at ABC Solutions
Background
ABC Solutions is an IT consulting firm specializing in data analysis and business intelligence. Recently, it was hired by a large retail chain, XYZMart, to analyze customer purchase data. The goal is to identify purchasing patterns and improve XYZMart's targeted advertising efforts. XYZMart provided ABC Solutions with a dataset containing sensitive customer information, including names, addresses, email addresses, purchase histories, and even transaction times and locations.
The Ethical Dilemma
Jordan is a data analyst at ABC Solutions and was assigned to the XYZMart project. During the analysis, Jordan realizes that some of the data could be used to identify individual customers’ habits, such as when they are likely to be at home or away based on their shopping patterns.
At the same time, Jordan’s friend Taylor, who works for a competing retail chain, reaches out and casually asks for “tips” on ABC Solutions' work, mentioning that they are looking for ABCs to improve their store’s advertising. Taylor even suggests that Jordan could help by sharing a few “non-specific ABCs” without giving away XYZMart’s confidential data. In exchange, Taylor offers to introduce Jordan to job openings at the competitor’s company, which could be a significant career boost for Jordan.
Questions for Analysis
Using the ACS Code of Ethics, analyze the ethical issues Jordan is facing and recommend actions Jordan should take to resolve the dilemma. Refer to specific ACS principles to justify your analysis.


Answer: 
Based on the ACS Code of Ethics Jordan is facing Trustworthiness as a ethical issues. As an ACS member Jordan need to respect the privacy and confedential of the clients.




